# FLEx_to_Apertium
This project aims to leverage the language documentation data compiled by linguists in the popular fieldwork software tool, FLEx, for extraction of morphological data that can be integrated into the Apertium platform. While linguists are able to build elaborate descriptions of a language, including detailed morphological analysis using FLEx, this data is seldom used in the generation of computational tools for languages. Data from FLEx can be exported in XML format and this data can then be parsed with the xml.etree.ElementTree module to extract information that can be used in the creation of a monolingual dictionary in Apertium, such as head words, parts of speech, morphological segmentation, and more depending on the information detailed in the FLEx corpus.

The current version of this tool is able to use a flextext/xml export to automatically create lexd and twol files that can do basic morphological analysis and generation with rules for single-character replacement. Further updates on this project aim to develop more robust rules in the twol file and allow for more direct input from users for refining the generated files. This project began as a Google Summer of Code project in Summer 2023 with b6c320e as the last commit of the coding period.

Using the interface folder, this program for converting the flextext/xml files is available as a web application. Using the deployed web application, users can upload their files and download the exported repository as a zip file. Otherwise, the files can be converted using the ```flextext_by_pos_word_extractor.py``` file in the ```lang_data``` folder.
